Hello!
Hi.
Hello!
Töppe.
I.
Alright.
Mhm.
Um...
I'm just waiting for Matt, Ron, Pascal,
and Eric to join because they have
accepted.
A medicine vacation today,
so he won't join.
Okay.
Ah, okay. So, okay,
then let's wait for Ron.
Fun.
Yeah.
Maybe we can start with that.
Did Matt get back on this data stream
option then, or are we missing that info?
Now that is on vacation about the...
A new functionality.
In what aspects?
Really.
If thought of the data stream preview of,
yeah, yeah.
At the Google thing, I'm not not sure;
I haven't had any information.
I'm not sure.
Mhm.
Okay, let's wait. I mean, he wrote Ron.
Ron and Eric have been leading on this.
Mmh.
Good, then they should be...
Over there.
Because we would actually decide today in
the best case, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Töppe.
Oh yeah.
Fine.
Hi, Eric.
I.
Yeah, transcript is running, nothing else.
Oh yeah, cool.
Thanks.
Is there any chance that we can?
Take out this topic.
In this week.
So we don't have to wait for the next
meeting on Monday.
I mean, for us, there's a follow-up topic.
If we go with stream,
we need to look at the mapping.
If data stream works and it has the same
output, this would not have to be done.
So that's the...
motivation on our side to have that
decision.
And I think in general it would be good
to have that decision,
but it should be as fast as possible in
my opinion. I wouldn't wait another week,
Mhm.
right? Do you all agree to that or?
Yeah.
Because we were just also discussing
timelines in the me team and Max will
come up with the timeline as well.
So we all are on the same page. And yeah,
it's not long anymore.
It's a few weeks and we need to make
steps.
Mhm.
So.
Eric,
are you involved in that Google topic,
like Matt wrote in his email about the
new way of data stream to access the
database logs?
Do you know about that?
Um, Gea.
No, Matt will join us in 3 minutes.
You just wrote.
Oh.
I was informed, yeah,
and we have done some, yeah,
investigation and tryings on that.
And the new way from the CDC,
the binary reader, if you talk about that,
that seems to work.
Correct.
But we have two different setups of
databases and we have still one open
question on the one in the central
environments.
But there was yesterday meeting about
that,
but we had the bank holiday yesterday,
so I was not involved in that meeting.
So I'm not sure what the outcome of that
was.
But it looks like that the binary reader
is an option to use.
Yeah,
but I'm not sure what map Brittemore has
discussed in that.
But instead of using more mining with the
delay, the binary,
there might be a solution in.
Uh-huh.
I mean, the log mining is out of,
is off the table. It's too slow.
Yeah.
With whatever optimizations we would do,
it will never be fulfilling the need of
Yakup.
the business.
Kamp.
Any other topics that we can discuss
until Matt will join us?
Databases are available obviously since
yesterday.
We cannot.
Check it because we don't have access,
right? Also,
the TMS user is something I wanted to
bring up.
Again.
Yeah, that's something that I have also.
Check checked on with with Matt. Um,
I've asked him if we can be if we can,
yeah,
just take the same permissions as we have
for 1034,
but at the moment it seems like we don't
have any.
documentation about those permissions.
So.
Uh-huh.
At the moment,
I don't know how we can solve it.
Okay.
Except that review, yeah.
discuss what permissions you need and
that we give you new permissions for the
1060 environment.
Yeah.
Yeah,
so I will quickly explain how we think it
can be done.
We will provide another full list of all
objects connected to the bridge,
let's put it like that.
Some are for reading, obviously.
Tables are only read by us and views.
We never write to tables directly.
And the right side of things,
that's function and procedures.
And that's the interface we know of.
We cannot know what is nested behind them
underneath the hood.
So our requirement is literally to be
able to read on the reach objects and
write on the write objects with
that user and you can test that literally
database side only.
We don't even need a bridge for that.
You can run every single object with a
select or a call with that user and see
if it works.
If it doesn't work and it misses
permissions, they need to be added.
If it works, it works.
That would be the proposal,
because we don't know the interns, yeah.
OK, so.
Matt just joined us,
so just to summarize it quickly,
you will just write down what permissions
to which objects you need, right?
Uh, yeah, I, we...
Check what he can give you.
Exactly.
The only more fine-grained form of
formulation would be that it's the
interfacing objects,
not everything that's a dependency of
these objects.
Just the surface that we see is something
we can provide. And obviously,
It's either a select on the read object
or calling the function and procedure on
the right side. That's what I can provide.
And then you can like freely play around
with what permissions you want to give to
this user and narrow it down as far as
you want so that it just is able to run
that specific interface. I think that's.
the fine-grained process on your side for
that.
By Matt.
Hello, sorry, sorry I'm a little bit late.
Yeah.
Yeah,
so that that's what we discussed last
week. Have we got have we got the list?
It's in the making.
I can provide it today. It's quite long.
Yeah, okay, good, good, good, good.
I thought it would be enough to go with
the one that you use or track in your
axle for the migration,
but there are a few other things that
need to be added.
Yeah.
But I think not nothing really dramatic,
just some additional tables that are read,
read only, not written to.
So I'll provide it and then you can play
around with permissions on your end
anyway, right?
And then find the right scope.
Yeah, yeah, that's the plan yet.
So one of the discussions that Eric and I
have had with Ron as well is we'll need
to do separation of the log,
like the CDC account,
whatever solution that is,
so that in the end run,
but effectively there'll be an account
for that.
Because that has a different level of
permission for, let's say,
Mmh.
archive logs or active logs.
And then there'll be an account which we
need the privileges for of what that
needs to be run or what it needs to run
Mhm.
effectively.
And that will be the TMS Bridge account.
Yeah.
Alright, yeah, makes total sense.
It's way slimmer, right? Totally narrow.
Yep.
Yeah.
Services.
It's all two different.
The way I describe it and Eric on the
call, but it's two different use cases,
basically, that we need to make.
Yeah.
Yeah, makes sense.
Töppe.
Good, so that's...
But just to be clear,
as soon as we've got them,
we can create them. It's not,
it's not Eric and Thomas are lined up to
No.
do it. Just need to, and then we can,
we can get started getting tested on the
Okay.
connection when you guys are ready.
Cool, good. So if we provide it today,
we can like start tomorrow or the next
day, sometime this week,
with connecting our cloud stuff to it,
right?
Yeah, I want to speak for this afternoon,
but yes, that should be should be doable,
depending on what time you get it in.
Okay, cool.
It won't take as long to create it on the
database. It's no time at all.
Okay.
Töppe.
Good.
What else was the topics? Aha, Google,
Matt.
We were waiting for probably more details
from your side of the binary reader.
So there was, there's two,
Eric is a bit more in more in knowledge
Um...
of what we what was achieved last week,
but just to give you context,
that disablement of the setting was not,
sorry,
we were able to enable it as data mining
in GCP.
So Eric, Thomas and I and Ron, sorry,
Eric,
Mhm.
Thomas and Ron then did some work last
week to sort of get that set up and
testing. But there's a, there's a,
we have raised something with Google,
which there is a call this afternoon,
I think.
That has probably already happened,
I think. I think it happened at 2.30.
Just to sort of,
there was a mismatch between what their
documentation was saying needs to be
required and what was actually able to be
set up. So there was,
it's currently in work, but
Just as a summary,
we should be able to get the solution
Mhm.
Okay.
working on Data Miner.
It does need quite high level,
high permissions,
which shouldn't be a problem, but yeah,
we've got the solution working to go off
the active log rather than the archive
log.
Eric, will you say that statement is true?
You were a bit more on it than I was.
Yakup.
Yep.
the binary reader can access the online
block and is also reading it and showing
the changes.
Yeah, well, what we have it, what we...
So, are there any sorry?
No, what I was going to say, Matthias,
is what we haven't done is a load test
with it. We haven't,
we've just done like a single row update.
Mhm.
Yeah.
That was,
so that was what I was going to add.
Okay, because I was about to ask,
because we mentioned it earlier,
time is ticking.
Are there any early red flags that make
us stop this approach? For example,
what does preview mean from Google?
Does it mean they can pull it back
anytime they want?
because it's not contractually binding
already to deliver this feature.
Is it fast?
Does it hit the one minute limit that
business is asking for?
Because if one of these two does not hit,
We can stop here, in my opinion.
We saw it go through quite quickly.
Have we done a load test now?
The, as a proof of comment, will it work?
Yes, I think it will work.
The preview comment will need to sort of
define with Google basically.
So usually when it's in a preview stage,
it was basically it's about to go GA,
that was in general release.
Mmh.
or general access is what it's called.
So it's not in an alpha or a beta.
Mhm.
If it was in an alpha or a beta,
then I'd be a bit more worried, probably.
But the fact it's on a preview and we've
got it enabled in the tenant.
Mm.
It won't disappear or change,
I don't think it's...
At.
Mm.
We can ask directly.
To answer your question,
we haven't got a direct answer from
Google about it,
Yeah.
but from my experience on these elements
of preview,
they don't tend to disappear or change
significantly.
Yeah,
just trying to make all things
transparent. We will put this in the ADR.
In the end, it's a decision by, I think,
Can you?
you, Christian, right?
Niederlassungsleiter.
Mm.
And then we can move on.
Just was thinking about it over the
Yeah.
weekend,
what non-technical things come with it.
And that's one of these.
Yeah.
I think for a decision going forward for
1060, we can,
until we prove this solution,
we're going to use stream. STRIM.
So there's nothing,
there's nothing holding us up here.
Ohh.
We've got the CDC solution, it's just,
we've either got a very expensive
solution or we've got a very,
very cheap solution.
Okay, so.
That stuff, yeah.
Yeah, that's an interesting take. I mean,
we can decide on that fine,
because then I can kick off our mapping
effort for that.
Um, to map the stream DTO.
Is it?
to our target DTO and that's it.
And then we make the binary reader Google
thing a parallel stream unrelated to the
go live.
Correct, correct. Yeah, probably.
Have you guys confirmed that you can make
Feige.
it work the data that's gone through Data
Street, through stream,
because the structure was different?
That's what I'm talking about.
It's a little analysis of the exact
Ah, okay, okay.
objects, how they are stored there.
Create the mapper, or adapt our mapping,
literally.
It's a cloud function that reads from the
object store currently.
It would just have a little mapping step
before that, and that's it.
Yeah.
But just to be clear,
that you guys haven't done that yet.
No, we have not.
Okay.
That's why I asked for a quick decision,
because it's additional work, right?
And it needs to be started as early as
possible.
So, is that a good decision then,
Christian? How does it sound to you?
Yep.
Um, yeah, sounds good, I would say.
So,
I would not assume that we are having any
difficulties in getting rid of the
preview feature.
I would say still the most, let's say.
feasible option that we have.
So let's go for it.
So we go with stream for now. In parallel,
we check the binary reader of data stream.
Once everything works there,
I would not bring it back into the go
live timeline. It would be after June.
Yeah.
I think we cannot do both.
We must commit to one thing now for the
next two months.
No.
Handle data stream or stream.
Yeah.
Still, I mean, it's, you know,
it's for distributed systems, it changes.
If you want to keep a timeline,
you need to freeze things at a certain
point of time.
What I'm saying is,
is the stream configuration will is the
only one that will be throw away if we go
for another solution.
Like, for example, how are you, if we...
If you, if it's a one or the other thing.
Then how are you going to handle the
Postgres side? Because that is through,
that is not through stream,
that is through data stream.
Mmh.
So you shouldn't be throwing anything
away here. That's the point I'm making.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm not talking about the technical
It's an add-on, right?
solution,
I'm just talking about risk induced by
operations or whatever, yeah.
And change time in general.
Someone needs to do something,
it takes another day, timeline is set.
Yeah,
it's more about the project management
side of things, not about the technology.
OK.
Just one question from my side.
If we don't get the other solution
Töppe.
running, does it mean that we...
Can't access the other environments.
Uh, it doesn't have to do with start Matt,
you go.
No, we could, we could, no, we could.
Sorry, Matthias. No, no, Patrick,
it means the stream solution is a third
There you go.
party tool and there is a cost associated
with that third party tool.
Mhm.
But the stream solution has been utilized
for nearly two years now,
streaming data from Oracle up into
GCP, so it's just that.
If we can use a native solution to Google
of data stream, it is a cheaper solution,
but they both fulfill the same
requirement.
Okay.
Yeah, so there's no, there's no,
from a connectivity perspective,
from data that we will pull,
both solutions support all branches.
Just one is more expensive than the other.
That's the term.
So, we are just talking about cross.
A.
But if we don't have the other solution
running by the go live,
Yeah, yeah.
then we can still do it later.
Yakup.
Yeah, correct. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We've we've got we have we have license
Okay, okay, got it.
Exactly.
coverage for stream,
which is the expensive one.
And...
We have license coverage up until October
2026.
Mhm.
Yeah.
Okay, good.
Then we will start looking into that
mapping.
Yakup.
And I will write the AER then.
I think we have all aspects together.
M.
Good.
Yep. One question I've got,
which is the testers have been asking for,
and I wasn't quite sure on the answer,
is how do we administer access to new
dispos?
E.g., I know it's through enter ID,
but is that, sorry,
Okay.
I know it's through key clock,
but is key clock connected to Nagle's
Mm-hmm.
enter ID, or is that still to do?
It is.
Yes, it is.
No, it is, it is done it.
Yeah.
Yeah,
Keycloak is still capable of running
extra users that are not in Nagle.
But every number.
Just the guys are in Nagle,
the guys are in Nagle, sorry,
they're not they're not external people,
they are they're Nagle testers,
let's say they're testers.
Yeah,
everyone with a Nagle entry ID and has
the correct set up in his Nagle entry ID
can access Niederlassungsleiter.
They are synced.
Töppe.
Uh...
Okay, so it's open to anyone.
It doesn't have to be,
it's not restricted to a group or
anything like that.
No, no, no, it's restricted to a group.
You should add this user to a group.
It's cool, yeah.
Okay, so next question.
Have we got a technical document that
explains what grouping is?
The design, because we're going to...
No, this is on your side, I think.
We just connected one group from the
keycloak to the enter ID.
And everything you put there in the enter
ID should be able to authenticate through
keycloak.
Yeah, so where's the,
we've got a write up that we can add into
then for key clock.
So the write up for key clock and how
that works,
and we've got the entry ID group that
we've set up for it.
So I'm assuming Ron did it.
Uh, yes, Ron did it, so maybe ask him.
Yeah. So let, no, no,
on the basis that he's got a lot on his
plate and a lot to do,
can we at least get a write off of what
key cloak authentication is doing,
where it's authenticating to,
and then we can add the group in that we
do because Ron's going to,
And.
Yeah.
Ron will have absolutely forgotten which
group he set it up on.
I can guarantee you that.
Mm.
So we're going to need,
the reason why I'm asking for
documentation again is we're going to
need to go to the security team to say,
this is what we're launching.
This is how the administration,
the access is done.
This is how we need to tell the identity
and access management team,
if you get a request for new disposition,
they need to go in this group. And
Yeah,
we need a document that articulates that
Yeah.
process.
Yeah.
Yeah,
I also added a link to the wiki page
where this is documented for the internal
flow,
but we can also add further and try
information there once we have it.
It's not something we need right now,
it's just that we're going to need to get
Thank you.
people added in that need to be testers
because we've got Max and Patrick and...
Nikolai,
is there one key cloak for all the
environments or have we got a key cloak
per environment?
No, no, no, key clock per environment.
Right, so again,
we're going to need to know that as well.
Because there'll be one for dev,
one for test, one for UAT,
and then one for prod, I'm assuming.
For the moment,
we have just test and prot.
Because.
Well, you guys have built,
have you not built a new environment yet?
No, is it created for it?
We're checking the gaps right now,
and I'm also checking if the...
Document does not contain all of that
already.
The clock.
Second.
There is key cloak servers in the go live
document. It's all documented.
Here.
I can quickly paste it as well if it
helps. So we have local, of course,
and then dev test props.
They are all set up already.
The people.
Kick hooks.
Okay, okay.
So, these kind of questions,
please look at the doc, not because...
I made it and want it to be used because
I want it to be complete.
Anything that's not there is awesome
because then I can add it and it's the
Yeah, OK.
consolidated knowledge we gather.
It's a lot of it should be there.
Yeah, yes.
It's just that we're going to need the
knowledge of the corresponding groups,
because if there's only two environments,
we're going to need to create the groups
and enter ID,
which we need to know what to do.
To the relevant key clocks,
if they're created.
Uh-huh.
Yes, so Nicolai, how does it work?
Is the Nagle and TriD is only one in one
environment, or are there also dev, test,
prod, and so on? Do you know that?
No,
I don't know how it's on the their set.
Hmm.
There is there is one enter ID and those.
One, yeah, one.
Do we need to have three or four key
clocks?
Can we not just have one and then
separate grouping within one key clock in
production, for example?
Ohh.
Because then we, at the moment,
we're creating extra infrastructure and a
service that I don't think we really need,
because we've got one enter ID.
We're effectively collecting 4
application mappings to four SSOs.
just to meet a requirement of
authentication for four different
environments.
I mean, this is a change, right?
It was like that all the time.
It requires rewiring and stuff like that.
Um...
Well, if it's easier,
if it's easier to have the creation of
four separate key clocks with four
separate identities with four separate
areas, then yeah, we can do that.
That's not a problem.
It's easier to do that.
I just challenge that it's easier to do
that versus set up one key clock with
Four different groups in it,
all access groups in it.
I mean, it.
It's like a mapping,
you would have prod mapping from entra to
key cloak prods in group,
the group would exist and then it would
give you access to prod.
Testing, testing.
Yeah, I mean, it is set up already,
so changing it is the effort, but...
Team.
Need to talk about it, Nikolai. Also,
when we talk about the gaps that we
probably have in the environments,
we have to think about it, Matt.
Mm-hmm.
Do do the path of least resistance
totally. I just it's yeah.
Yakup.
We're creating four of the same things
when realistically we could we could do
it. It's an identity provider,
so I'd be surprised if you couldn't have.
Yakup.
for mappings of grouping rather than for
running instances of people.
That's my challenge.
Mm.
Of course, we will check it.
Yep, OK.
We need to talk with developers for this,
because I don't know, but...
For sure, we need to talk with them.
Yakup.
Okay, uh, what else?
CDC, Oracle conversion, VDI, I think,
ongoing stream license, we talked about.
DB users, I will provide.
Database objects.
I'll give you an update for that if you
IT.
want.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, yeah.
So the Oracle conversion is done.
Andrea did the pull request yesterday for
that.
I haven't asked Thomas or Eric to deploy
them yet,
Mhm.
just because I've not seen them yet,
but sorry, not seen the changes yet.
Mm-hmm.
But in reality,
we could deploy into ABN 1060.
the required packages and views that you
guys need.
We can get it all done together with the
users, then that would be perfect.
Mhm.
Yeah.
Of course, that would be awesome.
So let's try and get that up and running.
Thanks.
We will provide the interfaces plus...
Yeah.
You think?
permission requirements,
you will try to deploy and then you
probably have it up and running by the
end of the week.
Yeah, yeah. Just the one thing,
the one thing I was going to raise was is
They are public, yeah.
the 30 character limit. So, the we,
I'm sure Sonia's told that you guys are
Yeah.
the devs,
but the in Oracle you have a 30 character
limit name,
so you can't have a naming of an object
long more than 30 characters.
Yeah.
So,
we've had to shorten down some of the
views,
and we've done that across both Postgres
and Oracle.
So the debs, I think,
are either realigning or have changed
Yes.
already. They might have finished it,
I don't know.
So there's a new naming scheme, basically.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So basically what I'm saying is we need
to make sure that's in the version you
guys are deploying those changes because
otherwise it won't work.
Because you'll be looking for a view that
doesn't exist.
Yeah, it's arrived at the team.
Just making sure again when the PBI is
Yep.
planned or if it's done already.
Okay.
Ohh, OK, yeah.
Hey, good.
So if I understand, just one confirmation,
if I'm understanding this correctly,
Is that?
we need to see that all our objects we're
using have a 30 character or is in within
this 30 character limit and if not,
we need to shorten them.
We've already done it, Max,
so Sonia's already done the work.
They have been shortened.
Sonia and Andrea have already done the
work.
They've shortened it and agreed in naming
convention, and then...
Ah.
Meaning?
What we need to do is just changing the
names we use.
Correct.
In the upside, yes. Yep.
Yep, all right.
Yeah,
it's no longer videos transport auto
Yeah.
pickup planning it. Correct.
It's Tito.
V this transfer,
V this TO pickup planning or PP.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
All right, got it.
If you, I think by the end,
if let's say that if we have a target by
the end of this week that we've got all
the Oracle packages deployed in both
Oracle packages deployed and then we've
got the Postgres packages deployed with
the new naming convention.
We've got the database user created with
the right permissions. I'm hoping, yeah,
by the end of this week,
we should be able to do some smoke tests.
So like you guys have access,
you can see it. It's
The app is looking for the right name,
etc. Sorry, right naming convention. Yeah,
Yeah.
I think by the end of the week we should
be good.
So talking about end of the week,
public vacation on Fridays also on your
end, right?
Yeah.
Monday, where's ours is Monday? U.K.
is Monday.
Uh-uh, okay,
because Germany we're all Friday.
Mhm.
So probably our deadline is Thursday
evening.
Yeah.
Would be good.
Yeah.
Okay.
I mean, I mean, I could I could do it,
Matthias,
but I wouldn't I wouldn't trust my Oracle
skill set to do it correctly,
and nor would Eric.
Yeah.
All right, good. I need to jump.
It.
Thanks a lot, and...
We speak soon.
Play.
Yakup.
All right.
All right, thank you. Thank you. Bye.
Thank you.
Cheers, everyone.
Thanks, guys. Bye-bye.
Bye.
Bye-bye.